Add TP for QUARKUS-5666.md Add support for encrypted PKCS#8 - technology preview (#198)
quarkus-qe/quarkus-test-plans: QUARKUS-5666.md

# QUARKUS-5666 Add support for encrypted PKCS#8 - technology preview

### Links to the resources

- JIRA ticket: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/QUARKUS-5666

> - GH PRs related to the JIRA issue: https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/pull/44549

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- GH PR related to the JIRA issue: https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/pull/44549
```

> - Guides modified and related:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Guide modified and related:
```

    * https://quarkus.io/guides/tls-registry-reference

## Scope of the testing

> Modification of the Test Framework (TF) to introduce Format.ENCRYPTED_PEM in the Certificate class to use it with the @Certificate 

Reviewer 2: I don't know man, the _scope of the testing_ should tell me what to test, not what how you will facilite testing. Information in this section are valid and important, but they belong to the _Impact on test suites and testing automation_ section or to your custom _Changes in the Test Framework_ section.

> Modification of the Test Framework (TF) to introduce Format.ENCRYPTED_PEM in the Certificate class to use it with the @Certificate 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modification of the Test Framework (TF) to introduce `Format.ENCRYPTED_PEM` in the `Certificate` class to use it with the `@Certificate `
```

the `Certificate` should probably be replaced with full class name (including package, not just the simple name)

> We will modify the Test Framework (TF) to introduce Format.ENCRYPTED_PEM in the Certificate class to use it with the @Certificate 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modification of the Test Framework (TF) to introduce Format.ENCRYPTED_PEM in the Certificate class to use it with the @Certificate 
```

annotation and supporting logic. Additionally, creating smoke testing to validate these changes.
### Changes in the Test Framework

>    * Introduce Format.ENCRYPTED_PEM in the TF’s @Certificate annotation.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Introduce `Format.ENCRYPTED_PEM` in the TF’s `@Certificate` annotation.  
```

   * Generating an encrypted PEM key dynamically.

>    * Allowing referencing a pre-existing encrypted PEM file from src/test/resources/certs/encrypted.

Reviewer: I don't think, we need exact way to PEM file. Maybe test resources is enough.

Reviewer 2: +1, also, currently certificates are generated to the `tmp` directory; it is not relevant where exactly, I'd not mention it

Author: yeah, that was when I was doing some manual tests before the current TD , I will remove it, thanks @gtroitsk

With these modifications in the TF, to validate the recently introduced support for encrypted PEM (PKCS#8) in Quarkus TLS, specifically with tests:

- Verifying Quarkus to handle encrypted PEM (PKCS#8) files

> - Loading an encrypted PKCS#8 key  (-----BEGIN ENCRYPTED PRIVATE KEY-----) from PEM format.

Reviewer: Don't Quarkus check it in the previous point?

Reviewer 2: +1

> - Ensuring that Quarkus can properly decrypt the private key during startup when a password is provided.

Reviewer: What smoke tests scenarios do you plan to add in FW examples?
